assignments/pa1/README.md, before:

# README file for Programming Assignment 1: Frontend

- For this assignment, you need the following files:

  - assignments/pa1/README
  - assignments/pa1/test.cl
  - assignments/pa1/bad.cl
  - assignments/pa1/good.cl
  - assignments/pa1/mycoolc
  - src/CoolLexer.g4
  - src/CoolParser.g4
  - src/ASTBuilder.java
  - src/StringTable.java
  - src/Utilities.java
  - src/TreeConstants.java
  - src/CoolErrorListener.java
  - src/CoolErrorStrategy.java
  - src/Flags.java
  - src/Frontend.java
  - src/ast/\*.java
  - src/ast/visitor/\*.java
  - bin/buildme
  - testsuite/lexer
  - testsuite/parser

- README this file. It contains detailed instructions for the
  assignment as well as a number of useful tips. You can update
  the README to explain your design decisions, explain why your
  code is correct. This will be taken into account during code
  review. It is part of the assignment to clearly and concisely
  explain things in text as well as to comment your code. Just
  edit this file.

- CoolLexer.g4 CoolParser.g4 is a template file for the
  specification of the lexical and syntactic analyzer. This
  template will compile and run as is, but it doesn't do much.
  You should read the Antlr4 manual to figure out what this
  template does do and how to extend it.

  In the lexer template, we have given you names and lexer rules
  for some of the terminals. In the parser template, we have
  provided some parts of some rules. You should not need to
  modify this code to get a working solution, but you are
  welcome to if you like. However, do not assume that any
  particular rule is complete. Use them as an example to write
  the remaining rules. You might also need to add precedence
  declarations.

- ASTBuilder.java You can use this file for code that creates the
  abstract syntax tree at the end of parsing. There are several
  ways to implement it. One way to do it is to traverse the
  parse tree using CoolParserBaseVisitor, automatically
  generated by ANTLR, and create the corresponding AST. Whatever
  approach you choose, place all your changes in this file, and
  do not edit any files in the ast package.

- ast/\*.java
  The ast package provides classes for abstract syntax trees.
  See assignment handout for details.
  DO NOT MODIFY.

- ast/visitor/\*.java The ast.visitor package provides classes
  for traversing abstract syntax trees, using Visitor Design
  Pattern. DumpVisitor pretty-prints the AST in the format
  compatible with subsequent phases.
  DO NOT MODIFY.

- test.cl is a Cool program that you can test the lexical
  analyzer on. It contains some errors, so it won't compile with
  coolc. Note that test.cl does not exercise all lexical
  constructs of Cool. Nevertheless, it is an interesting test.
  It is not a good test to start with, nor does it provide
  adequate testing of your lexer.

- good.cl, bad.cl test a few features of the grammar. You can
  add tests to ensure that good.cl exercises every legal
  construction of the grammar and that bad.cl exercises as many
  different parsing errors as you can squeeze into one file. If
  there is any intentional and known difference between reference
  lexer/parser and your implementation, there should be tests here
  that demonstrate it. Explain your tests in these
  files and put any overall comments in the \U{README} file.
  This will be taken into account during code review.

  Part of your assignment is to come up with good testing inputs
  and a testing strategy. (Don't take this lightly---good test
  input is difficult to create, and forgetting to test something
  is the most likely cause of lost points during grading.)

- mycoolc is a shell script that glues together the components of the
  compiler using Unix pipes instead of statically linking code.  
   While inefficient, this architecture makes it easy to mix and match
  the components you write with those of the course compiler.

- StringTable.java contain string table data structures.
  DO NOT MODIFY.

- TreeConstants.java defines some useful symbol constants.
  You may add some of your own, if you wish.

- CoolErrorListener.java CoolErrorStrategy.java declare error
  error reporting and handling.

- Utilities.java contains various support functions used by the
  main Frontend driver.
  DO NOT MODIFY.

- Flags.java implements routines for parsing command line flags.
  DO NOT MODIFY.

- Frontend.java implements the main Frontend driver, i.e., reads
  the input file and command line arguments and calls the
  lexer and the parser.
  DO NOT MODIFY.

- bin/buildme contains sample commands for compiling and running your
  program.

  The build directory will contain the scanner and parser generated by
  Antlr4 from Cool*.g4. DO NOT MODIFY IT, as your changes will
  be overwritten the next time you run Antlr4. Instead, edit Cool*.g4
  and these files will be regenerated automatically.

## Instructions

To compile your frontend, type

    buildme frontend

This runs Antlr4, compiles all the classes and produces a frontend.

To run your frontend, put your test input in a file 'foo.cl' and type

    ./myfrontend foo.cl

myfrontend is a shell script which invokes Frontend.main() as
the standalone component of the Cool compiler. It requires
analysis and backend to compile a Cool program.

To run your lexer without parser:

    ./myfrontend -x foo.cl

If you think your frontend is correct and behaves like
the one we wrote, you may want to run a COOL compiler using
your frontend.

    ./mycoolc foo.cl

and see whether it runs and produces correct code for any
examples. If your lexical and syntactic analyzer behaves in
an unexpected manner, you may get errors anywhere, i.e. during
parsing, during semantic analysis, during code generation or
only when you run the produced code on spim. So beware.

To run the testsuites:

    testme lexer parser

Commit message:

add lexer errors to readme and remove duplicate cases in lexer

assignments/pa1/README.md, after:

# README file for Programming Assignment 1: Frontend

- Errors handled by the lexer
  - `Unterminated string constant`
  - `String contains null character`/`String contains escaped null character` Escaped and unescaped null characters in strings which don't close and in strings which close
  - `Unterminated string constant` When a string is not closed, it will conitnue on the next line
    - i.e. `"something <new_line> "` will consider line 1 as an unterminated string, and same with line 2
  - `EOF in string constant` String's which contain an EOF aka the ending of a document/page
    - i.e. `"something`
  - `String constant too long` when a string's length (after building it) is greater than 1024
  - `Unmatched *)` When a comment has not been closed
  - `EOF in comment` When a comment (or inner comment) contains EOF
    - i.e. `(* something`

Note about lexer: We remove the outer quotes from strings - which is clearly intended in the parser, but in the lexer reference outputs strings still have quotes

---

- For this assignment, you need the following files:

  - assignments/pa1/README
  - assignments/pa1/test.cl
  - assignments/pa1/bad.cl
  - assignments/pa1/good.cl
  - assignments/pa1/mycoolc
  - src/CoolLexer.g4
  - src/CoolParser.g4
  - src/ASTBuilder.java
  - src/StringTable.java
  - src/Utilities.java
  - src/TreeConstants.java
  - src/CoolErrorListener.java
  - src/CoolErrorStrategy.java
  - src/Flags.java
  - src/Frontend.java
  - src/ast/\*.java
  - src/ast/visitor/\*.java
  - bin/buildme
  - testsuite/lexer
  - testsuite/parser

- README this file. It contains detailed instructions for the
  assignment as well as a number of useful tips. You can update
  the README to explain your design decisions, explain why your
  code is correct. This will be taken into account during code
  review. It is part of the assignment to clearly and concisely
  explain things in text as well as to comment your code. Just
  edit this file.

- CoolLexer.g4 CoolParser.g4 is a template file for the
  specification of the lexical and syntactic analyzer. This
  template will compile and run as is, but it doesn't do much.
  You should read the Antlr4 manual to figure out what this
  template does do and how to extend it.

  In the lexer template, we have given you names and lexer rules
  for some of the terminals. In the parser template, we have
  provided some parts of some rules. You should not need to
  modify this code to get a working solution, but you are
  welcome to if you like. However, do not assume that any
  particular rule is complete. Use them as an example to write
  the remaining rules. You might also need to add precedence
  declarations.

- ASTBuilder.java You can use this file for code that creates the
  abstract syntax tree at the end of parsing. There are several
  ways to implement it. One way to do it is to traverse the
  parse tree using CoolParserBaseVisitor, automatically
  generated by ANTLR, and create the corresponding AST. Whatever
  approach you choose, place all your changes in this file, and
  do not edit any files in the ast package.

- ast/\*.java
  The ast package provides classes for abstract syntax trees.
  See assignment handout for details.
  DO NOT MODIFY.

- ast/visitor/\*.java The ast.visitor package provides classes
  for traversing abstract syntax trees, using Visitor Design
  Pattern. DumpVisitor pretty-prints the AST in the format
  compatible with subsequent phases.
  DO NOT MODIFY.

- test.cl is a Cool program that you can test the lexical
  analyzer on. It contains some errors, so it won't compile with
  coolc. Note that test.cl does not exercise all lexical
  constructs of Cool. Nevertheless, it is an interesting test.
  It is not a good test to start with, nor does it provide
  adequate testing of your lexer.

- good.cl, bad.cl test a few features of the grammar. You can
  add tests to ensure that good.cl exercises every legal
  construction of the grammar and that bad.cl exercises as many
  different parsing errors as you can squeeze into one file. If
  there is any intentional and known difference between reference
  lexer/parser and your implementation, there should be tests here
  that demonstrate it. Explain your tests in these
  files and put any overall comments in the \U{README} file.
  This will be taken into account during code review.

  Part of your assignment is to come up with good testing inputs
  and a testing strategy. (Don't take this lightly---good test
  input is difficult to create, and forgetting to test something
  is the most likely cause of lost points during grading.)

- mycoolc is a shell script that glues together the components of the
  compiler using Unix pipes instead of statically linking code.  
   While inefficient, this architecture makes it easy to mix and match
  the components you write with those of the course compiler.

- StringTable.java contain string table data structures.
  DO NOT MODIFY.

- TreeConstants.java defines some useful symbol constants.
  You may add some of your own, if you wish.

- CoolErrorListener.java CoolErrorStrategy.java declare error
  error reporting and handling.

- Utilities.java contains various support functions used by the
  main Frontend driver.
  DO NOT MODIFY.

- Flags.java implements routines for parsing command line flags.
  DO NOT MODIFY.

- Frontend.java implements the main Frontend driver, i.e., reads
  the input file and command line arguments and calls the
  lexer and the parser.
  DO NOT MODIFY.

- bin/buildme contains sample commands for compiling and running your
  program.

  The build directory will contain the scanner and parser generated by
  Antlr4 from Cool*.g4. DO NOT MODIFY IT, as your changes will
  be overwritten the next time you run Antlr4. Instead, edit Cool*.g4
  and these files will be regenerated automatically.

## Instructions

To compile your frontend, type

    buildme frontend

This runs Antlr4, compiles all the classes and produces a frontend.

To run your frontend, put your test input in a file 'foo.cl' and type

    ./myfrontend foo.cl

myfrontend is a shell script which invokes Frontend.main() as
the standalone component of the Cool compiler. It requires
analysis and backend to compile a Cool program.

To run your lexer without parser:

    ./myfrontend -x foo.cl

If you think your frontend is correct and behaves like
the one we wrote, you may want to run a COOL compiler using
your frontend.

    ./mycoolc foo.cl

and see whether it runs and produces correct code for any
examples. If your lexical and syntactic analyzer behaves in
an unexpected manner, you may get errors anywhere, i.e. during
parsing, during semantic analysis, during code generation or
only when you run the produced code on spim. So beware.

To run the testsuites:

    testme lexer parser
